New workspace guide (#1)
neo4j-graph-examples/healthcare-analytics: documentation/healthcare-analytics-workspace.adoc

== Healthcare Analytics
:images: {img}
:data: https://neo4j-graph-examples.github.io/healthcare-analytics/data

image::{img}/healthcare-analytics.jpg[float=right,width=200px]

Health care analytics allows for the examination of patterns in healthcare data to determine how clinical care can be improved. 

> Healthcare organizations can _"realize new opportunities and efficiencies by leveraging the connections within their existing data: be it in a connected genome, or a provider network, or patient treatments,"_.

Reviewer: Sounds almost too much like marketing. I'd paraphrase it and leave Emil's name out of it.

Author: I think you are right. I left this in because I cut down the original guide so much...

*Emil Eifrem, Neo4j CEO*

Graph databases are a good fit for healthcare analytics due to their ability to model and query highly connected data.

In this guide, you will learn:

> * ...

Reviewer: TBD?

Author: To be defined. Its a placeholder for me to complete once I know what they are going to learn. Thanks

== FAERS

image::{img}/fda.jpg[float="right"]

The link:https://open.fda.gov/data/faers/[FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS)^] is a database that contains information on adverse event and medication error reports submitted to link:https://www.fda.gov/[FDA^].

The FDA uses FAERS to monitor for new adverse events and medication errors that might occur. 
It is a system that measures occasional harms from medications and to identify correctable and preventable problems in health care delivery.

The FDA receives adverse event and medication error reports from health care professionals and consumers. 
Health professionals and consumers may also report these events to the products’ manufacturers, who are required to report them to the FDA.

Data from the https://www.fda.gov/drugs/questions-and-answers-fdas-adverse-event-reporting-system-faers/fda-adverse-event-reporting-system-faers-public-dashboard[FDA FAERS datasets^] was used to create the graph data model for this guide.

In the next section, you will import the data and learn about the graph model.

== FAERS Graph Model
[role=NX_TAB_NAV,tab=import]
pagelaunch::[]

> The model contains data about the cases (people), the reactions they had, the drugs they took, the outcomes, who reported the case, the therapies and the demographics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model contains data about the cases (people), the reactions they had, the drugs they took, the outcomes, who reported the case, the therapies, and the demographics.
```

[NOTE]
.Challenge
====
Can you complete this query to find `Outcome` of `Case` using the `RESULTED_IN` relationship:

.Replace the `?`'s to complete the query
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (c:Case)-[?]->(o:Outcome)
RETURN c,?,o
----
====

[%collapsible]
.Reveal the solution
====
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (c:Case)-[r:RESULTED_IN]->(o:Outcome)
RETURN c,r,o
----
====

== Aggregating results

In the previous section you use Cypher to find the reactions for each case.

You can use the `count()` function to aggregate the results and find the number of cases for each reaction.

.Count reactions
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (c:Case)-[:HAS_REACTION]->(r:Reaction) 
RETURN r.description, count(c) 
----

By order the results you can see the reactions that are most common.

.Top reactions
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (c:Case)-[:HAS_REACTION]->(r:Reaction) 
RETURN r.description, count(c) 
ORDER BY count(c) DESC
----

And by adding a limit you can see the top _n_ reactions.

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (c:Case)-[:HAS_REACTION]->(r:Reaction) 
RETURN r.description, count(c) 
ORDER BY count(c) DESC
LIMIT 5
----

> In the next section, you will create Cypher to find relationships between manufacturers, drugs and reactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next section, you will write Cypher queries to find relationships between manufacturers, drugs, and reactions.
```

The `FALLS_UNDER` relationship connects the `Case` to the `AgeGroup`.

This query returns the number of cases for each age group.

.Cases by age group
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (a:AgeGroup)<-[:FALLS_UNDER]-(c:Case)
MATCH (c)-[:HAS_REACTION]->(r)
RETURN a.ageGroup as ageGroupName, count(r) as total
ORDER BY total DESC
----

Using this data you can also look at the outcomes for each age group.
For example, the following query returns the number of cases which resulted in `Death` for each age group.

.Deaths by age group
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (a:AgeGroup)<-[:FALLS_UNDER]-(c:Case)
MATCH (c)-[:RESULTED_IN]->(o:Outcome{outcome:"Death"})
RETURN a.ageGroup as ageGroupName, count(c) as total
ORDER BY total DESC
----

By comparing total number of reactions and the number of reactions by age group you can create a percentage of reactions for each age group.

.Percentage of side effects for each age group
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (c:Case)-[:HAS_REACTION]->(r)
WITH count(r) as totalReactions
MATCH (a:AgeGroup)<-[:FALLS_UNDER]-(c)-[:HAS_REACTION]->(r)
WITH a, count(r) as ageGroupWiseReactions, totalReactions

> RETURN a.ageGroup as ageGroupName, (ageGroupWiseReactions*100.00)/totalReactions as perc

Reviewer: Does this warrant a bit of an explanation of what's going on?

Author: Thank you. I have gone through your comments and made the change :)
